[Docs]: Update `Asset` and `State` sections (#1030)
0xPolygonMiden/miden-base: docs/architecture/assets.md

Native `Asset`s adhere to the Miden `Asset` model (encoding, issuance, storage). Every native `Asset` is encoded using 32 bytes, including both the [ID](accounts.md#id) of the issuing account and the `Asset` details.

### Issuance

> **Info**
> - Only [faucet](accounts.md#account-type) accounts can issue assets.

Faucets can issue either fungible or non-fungible `Asset`s as defined at account creation. The faucet's code specifies the `Asset` minting conditions: i.e., how, when, and by whom these `Asset`s can be minted. Once minted, they can be transferred to other accounts using notes.

![Architecture core concepts](../img/architecture/asset/asset-issuance.png)

### Type

#### Fungible asset

Fungible `Asset`s are encoded with the amount and the `faucet_id` of the issuing faucet. The amount is always 2^{63} - 1 or smaller, representing the maximum supply for any fungible `Asset`. Examples include ETH and various stablecoins (e.g., DAI, USDT, USDC).

#### Non-fungible asset

Non-fungible `Asset`s are encoded by hashing the `Asset` data into 32 bytes and placing the `faucet_id` as the second element. Examples include NFTs like a DevCon ticket.

### Storage

> [Accounts](accounts.md) and [notes](notes.md) have vaults used to store `Asset`s. Accounts use a sparse-merkle tree as a vault while notes use a simple list. This enables an account to store a practically unlimited number of assets while a note can only store 255 assets.

Reviewer: I think it is written as `sparse Merkle tree`, see https://eprint.iacr.org/2016/683.pdf

# Asset

> > Fungible, Non-fungible, Native, and Non-native assets in the Miden protocol.

Reviewer: That might have been not very clear. Let's stick to Fungible and Non-fungible assets. There is no need to mention native and non-native assets.

The differentiation between native and non-native assets is not important for now. We can add a section below and say something like "**Non-native assets**: You don't have to follow our asset protocol, it is also possible to ..."

## What is the purpose of an asset?

> In Miden, assets serve as the primary means of expressing and transferring value between [accounts](accounts.md) through [notes](notes.md). They are designed with four key principles in mind:

Reviewer: Nice wording.

> 1. **Parallelizable Exchange:**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Parallelizable exchange:**  
```

>    By representing ownership and transfers at the account level rather than using centralized global structures, Miden enables multiple asset exchanges to occur simultaneously, improving network scalability and efficiency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    By managing ownership and transfers directly at the account level instead of relying on global structures like ERC20 contracts, accounts can exchange assets simultaneously, boosting scalability and efficiency.
```

> 2. **Self-Sovereign Ownership:**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Self-sovereign ownership:**  
```

>    Users retain full control over their assets, as there is no reliance on third-party custodians or global registries. This ensures that users directly manage their own value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Assets are stored in the accounts directly. This ensures that users retain complete control over their assets.
```

> 3. **Censorship Resistance:**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Censorship resistance:**  
```

>    With no single authoritative contract or entity controlling asset transfers, users can transact freely. This reduces the risk of transactions being blocked, resulting in a more open and resilient system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Users can transact freely and anonymously with no single contract or entity controlling asset transfers. This reduces the risk of censored transactions, resulting in a more open and resilient system.
```

> 4. **Flexible Fee Payment:**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Flexible fee payment:**  
```

>    Unlike protocols that require a specific base asset for fees, Miden allows users to pay fees in any supported asset. This flexibility simplifies the user experience.

Reviewer: Let's remove that point. That might have changed ... We haven't finalized the fee mechanism yet.

@bobbinth

Reviewer 2: Yes, let's remove this for now. We may bring it back once we flash out the fee mode, but also maybe this content will go somewhere else.

## What is an asset?

> An asset in Miden is a unit of value that can be transferred from one [account](accounts.md) to another using [notes](notes.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An asset in Miden is a unit of value that can be transferred from one [account](accounts.md) to another using [notes](notes.md).

Every asset is encoded using a single `Word` (4 field elements). This `Word` includes the [ID](accounts.md#id) of the issuing account and the asset details.

```

Reviewer: I would remove the native / non-native distinction to make it simpler.

Reviewer: This chapter explains the protocol, so obvisouly we explain assets in the context of the protocol.

### Issuance

> **Info**
> - Only [faucet](accounts.md#account-type) accounts can issue assets.

Faucets can issue either fungible or non-fungible assets as defined at account creation. The faucet's code specifies the asset minting conditions: i.e., how, when, and by whom these assets can be minted. Once minted, they can be transferred to other accounts using notes.

![Architecture core concepts](../img/architecture/asset/asset-issuance.png)

### Type

#### Fungible asset

Fungible assets are encoded with the amount and the `faucet_id` of the issuing faucet. The amount is always `$2^{63} - 1$` or smaller, representing the maximum supply for any fungible asset. Examples include ETH and various stablecoins (e.g., DAI, USDT, USDC).

If the `faucet_id` of ETH is `2`, 100 ETH is encoded as:  
`[100, 0, 0, 2]`

The zeros in the middle positions distinguish fungible from non-fungible assets.

#### Non-fungible asset

Non-fungible assets are encoded by hashing the asset data into a `Word` and placing the `faucet_id` as the second element. Examples include NFTs like a DevCon ticket.

A non-fungible asset is encoded as:  
`[e0, faucet_id, e2, e3]`

> The `faucet_id` at position `1` distinguishes non-fungible from fungible assets.

Reviewer: Should we add that the faucet_id can never be 0?

Author: I think that this is implementation details.

### Storage

> [Accounts](accounts.md) and [notes](notes.md) have vaults used for asset storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Accounts](accounts.md) and [notes](notes.md) have vaults used to store assets.
```

Reviewer: simpler?

![Architecture core concepts](../img/architecture/asset/asset-storage.png)

### Burning

Assets in Miden can be burned through various methods, such as rendering them unspendable by storing them in an unconsumable note, or sending them back to their original faucet for burning using it's dedicated function.

> ## Non-native asset

Reviewer: We can keep this sub-chapter. Maybe rename it to "Alternative asset models"?

# Asset

> Fungible and Non-fungible assets in the Miden protocol.

## What is the purpose of an asset?

In Miden, assets serve as the primary means of expressing and transferring value between [accounts](accounts.md) through [notes](notes.md). They are designed with four key principles in mind:

1. **Parallelizable exchange:**  

>     By managing ownership and transfers directly at the account level instead of relying on global structures like ERC20 contracts, accounts can exchange assets simultaneously, boosting scalability and efficiency.

Reviewer 3: Nit: Instead of "simultaneously" I think I would rather use "parallel" or "concurrently", as those are the more common words to describe this property. This does depend on the target audience though (technical or non-technical). Since I guess it's technical, I would rather use the mentioned words.

2. **Self-sovereign ownership:**  
   Assets are stored in the accounts directly. This ensures that users retain complete control over their assets.

3. **Censorship resistance:**  
   Users can transact freely and anonymously with no single contract or entity controlling asset transfers. This reduces the risk of censored transactions, resulting in a more open and resilient system.

4. **Flexible fee payment:**  
   Unlike protocols that require a specific base asset for fees, Miden allows users to pay fees in any supported asset. This flexibility simplifies the user experience.

> ## What is an asset?

Reviewer 2: I find having lots of small sections a bit distracting - though, maybe that's just in Github rendering and it it would look better in mdBook rendering.

> An asset in Miden is a unit of value that can be transferred from one [account](accounts.md) to another using [notes](notes.md).

Reviewer 3: As mentioned further above, this is basically the definition of an Asset. So this should go directly to the top where other sections (like Notes, Accounts) contain their definition.

Every asset is encoded using a single `Word` (4 field elements). This `Word` includes the [ID](accounts.md#id) of the issuing account and the asset details.

## Native asset

> All data structures following the Miden asset model that can be exchanged.

> Native assets adhere to the Miden asset model (encoding, issuance, storage). Every native asset is encoded using a single `Word` (4 field elements). This `Word` includes both the [ID](accounts.md#id) of the issuing account and the asset details.

Reviewer: Maybe we should say "32 bytes" everywhere instead of `Word` and `Felt`. I would assume that most people don't know what that is. And in this section we want to describe the protocol.

### Issuance

> > **Info**

Reviewer 3: Side note: It would be nice to render this properly as an admonition. I haven't used mkdocs before, but it looks like it has support for it but it may depend on the used theme. For example, the Material Theme for mkdocs renders them like so: https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/reference/admonitions/#supported-types.

> - Only [faucet](accounts.md#account-type) accounts can issue assets.

Faucets can issue either fungible or non-fungible assets as defined at account creation. The faucet's code specifies the asset minting conditions: i.e., how, when, and by whom these assets can be minted. Once minted, they can be transferred to other accounts using notes.

> ![Architecture core concepts](../img/architecture/asset/asset-issuance.png)

Reviewer 2: I think this picture could be improved:

- It feels disproportionally big (I think we can reduce the size of text and shapes quite a bit).
- I would probably not introduce new colors - e.g., in Miden VM docs arrows also use back color.
- I would maybe add some simple comments to make it easier to understand what's what.

Reviewer 3: Agreed. Perhaps the arrows from the faucet to the note should be labelled "issues", as in, "the faucet issues notes" and the arrows from the notes to the accounts should be labelled "transferred", as in, "the notes are transferred to the accounts"?

### Type

#### Fungible asset

Fungible assets are encoded with the amount and the `faucet_id` of the issuing faucet. The amount is always `$2^{63} - 1$` or smaller, representing the maximum supply for any fungible asset. Examples include ETH and various stablecoins (e.g., DAI, USDT, USDC).

If the `faucet_id` of ETH is `2`, 100 ETH is encoded as:  
`[100, 0, 0, 2]`

> The zeros in the middle positions distinguish fungible from non-fungible assets.

Reviewer: Maybe we leave it here as an example but make it correct? 

At least for now, we don't have a detailed protocol spec and ppl don't know what an Asset in Miden is.

> The zeros in the middle positions distinguish fungible from non-fungible assets.

Reviewer 2: I think describing the properties of assets without mentioning the details is fine. If we do wan to mention them, we'd need to get much more specific. For example, this is how the asset would look like in the VM, but a serialized version outside of the VM would look different. Rust representation also looks a bit different from this. So, we'd need to explain which context this is for and how other context may be different.

> The zeros in the middle positions distinguish fungible from non-fungible assets.

Author: Removed the description.

#### Non-fungible asset

Non-fungible assets are encoded by hashing the asset data into a `Word` and placing the `faucet_id` as the second element. Examples include NFTs like a DevCon ticket.

A non-fungible asset is encoded as:  
`[e0, faucet_id, e2, e3]`

The `faucet_id` at position `1` distinguishes non-fungible from fungible assets.

### Storage

> [Accounts](accounts.md) and [notes](notes.md) have vaults used to store assets.

Reviewer 2: I would elaborate on asset storage a bit. For example, I'd mention explicitly that in account we use a Sparse Merkle tree to keep track of assets - this means that the number of assets stored in an account is technically unlimited. But in notes, we put assets into a simple list which cannot contain more than 255 assets (I believe).

Reviewer: Can we not mention the sparse Merkle tree but only the protocol property / rule that we can store a practically unlimited number of assets in an account, but in a note only 255. 

To me a sparse Merkle tree sound like an implementation detail and most people won't know what it is.

Reviewer 2: We could (and probably should) mention that we use an authenticated data structure - but I don't see an issue with mentioning SMT as well (as mentioned in one other comment, I think it is a part of the protocol - though, how specifically we've implemented the SMT is not).

Author: Modified.

> ![Architecture core concepts](../img/architecture/asset/asset-storage.png)

Reviewer 2: Similar to the above comment, I think this graphic can be improved.

### Burning

> Assets in Miden can be burned through various methods, such as rendering them unspendable by storing them in an unconsumable note, or sending them back to their original faucet for burning using it's dedicated function.

Reviewer 3: This mentions the dedicated `burn` function of our standard faucet contract, which makes me wonder if we should perhaps include this faucet as an example of how it works (leaving implementation details out, but describing its properties and guarantees)?

Author: I think we don't need to go too deep into the details.

> Assets in Miden can be burned through various methods, such as rendering them unspendable by storing them in an unconsumable note, or sending them back to their original faucet for burning using it's dedicated function.

Reviewer 3: Should `Asset`s be written in monospace, similar to how `Account` and `Note` are written in monospace on their respective pages?

## Alternative asset models

> All data structures not following the Miden asset model that can be exchanged.

Miden is flexible enough to support other asset models. For example, developers can replicate Ethereum’s ERC20 pattern, where fungible asset ownership is recorded in a single account. To transact, users send a note to that account, triggering updates in the global hashmap state.

## Conclusion

> Miden’s asset model provides a secure, flexible, scalable, and privacy-preserving framework for representing and transferring value. By embedding asset information directly into accounts and supporting multiple asset types, Miden fosters a decentralized ecosystem where users maintain their privacy, control, transactions can scale efficiently, and censorship is minimized.

Reviewer 3: I think we should include a mention of privacy somewhere in this doc page, otherwise it feels odd to conclude that assets support privacy when we haven't mentioned it before. Maybe just a sentence in the "Censorship resistance" property would be good enough.
